= Ruby HYSH

Ruby HYSH stands for Huang Ying's SHell in Ruby.

Bash interactive shell and scripts are very important tools to use
Linux/Unix.  But I don't like the syntax of bash, would rather to do
that in Ruby.  This work is based on HYSH (Huang Ying's SHell in
Common Lisp: https://github.com/hying-caritas/hysh).

== Example

  def dpkg_installed1(package_names = nil)
    Hysh.out_lines ->{
      Hysh.pipe ['dpkg', '-l'],
        if package_names
  	['egrep', "(#{package_names.join '|'})"]
        else
  	['cat']
        end
    }
  end

or write the filter in Ruby,

  def dpkg_installed2(package_names = nil)
    Hysh.out_lines ->{
      Hysh.pipe ['dpkg', '-l'] {
        proc_line = if package_names
  		    ->l{
  		      if package_names.any? { |pkg|
  			   l.index pkg
  			 }
  			l
  		      end
  		    }
  		  else
  		    ->l{ l }
  		  end
        Hysh.filter_line &proc_line
      }
    }
  end

or use the hysh_script,

  def dpkg_installed3(package_names = nil)
    hysh_script {
      if package_names
        pipe ['dpkg', '-l'] {
          filter_line { |l|
            package_names.any? { |pkg|
              l.index pkg
            } && l
          }
        }
      else
        dpkg '-l'
      end
    }
  end

Compared with Kernel.system, HYSH provides different coding style for
IO redirection, Environment manipulating, Setting current directory,
pipe line support without shell, and writing pipeline filter in Ruby.

== Common conventions

There are mainly two categories of functions in HYSH.  Some functions
compute (run a function or command), some other functions setup
environment (IO redirection, manipulating environment, changing
current directory, etc.) for computing.

Functions to setup environment for some computing have one parameter
to several parameters (sometimes via block too) to specify the one to
several computing (for example, pipe).  Most computing functions
return whether computing is successful ($? holds the details status if
the computing is synchronous and run as the process).  Most functions
to setup environment will return the return value of one of the given
computing. Most out_, and io_ family functions will return two values,
the first is the string returned, the second is the run value of the
computing.

== Run external program

Unlike Kernel.system, HYSH typically uses only a very basic run
function (although it is possible to specify options), because most IO
redirection and glue between programs are done in Ruby functions.

== IO redirection

IO redirection in Unix process world means replace the original
standard input, output, etc. file descriptors with file, pipe, etc.
In HYSH, IO redirection is defined for Ruby too.  That means replace
the original $stdin, $stdout, and $stderr, etc. IOs with other IOs of
file, pipe, etc.  So for an IO redirection, a Ruby global IO variable
name and a file descriptor number can be specified.  After that is
done, all Ruby function will reference the replaced IOs for the global
IO variables, and the specified file descriptors redirection will be
setup for the external programs too.

== Process

The process in HYSH is used to represent a Ruby fork or Unix process.
The child processes will inherited all IO redirection, environment
variables, and current directory, etc. from their parent processes.

== Glue between processes

The most important glue is pipeline.  I think this is the flagship of
UNIX worlds.  Now we can do that in Ruby.  Any processes can be
connected with pipeline, regardless Ruby fork or Unix process.

Other glue mechanisms are provided too, including and, or, and
sequence etc.

== External program error processing

External program error is defined as exiting with non-zero status,
that is, failed in UNIX sense.  It can be ignored, warned or an
exception can be raised to stop running the following code.

== Arbitrary combination

The power of HYSH is that it provide a more flexible way to combine
external programs, IO redirection, glue (pipeline, etc.), etc. with
Ruby.

For example, to encapsulate some external filter program in Ruby with
string as input and output.  It can be accomplished with:

 Hysh.in_s(input-string) {
   Hysh.out_s {
     Hysh.run filter arg1, arg2 ...
   }
 }

For given input-string and arguments, the form will return the result
string and exit success status of the filter.
